docs/src/wallet/cli-wallets.md, before:

# Command Line Wallets

Solana supports several different types of wallets that can be used to interface
directly with the Solana command-line tools.

**If you are unfamiliar with using command line programs and just want to be able
to send and receive SOL tokens, we recommend setting up a third-party
[App Wallet](app-wallets.md)**.

To use a Command Line Wallet, you must first [install the Solana CLI tools](../cli/install-solana-cli-tools.md)

## File System Wallet

A *file system wallet*, aka an FS wallet, is a directory in your computer's
file system. Each file in the directory holds a keypair.

### FS Wallet Security

An FS wallet is the most convenient and least secure form of wallet. It is
convenient because the keypair is stored in a simple file. You can generate as
many keys as you would like and trivially back them up by copying the files. It
is insecure because the keypair files are **unencrypted**. If you are the only
user of your computer and you are confident it is free of malware, an FS wallet
is a fine solution for small amounts of cryptocurrency. If, however, your
computer contains malware and is connected to the Internet, that malware may
upload your keys and use them to take your tokens. Likewise, because the
keypairs are stored on your computer as files, a skilled hacker with physical
access to your computer may be able to access it. Using an encrypted hard
drive, such as FileVault on MacOS, minimizes that risk.

## Paper Wallet

A *paper wallet* is a collection of *seed phrases* written on paper. A seed
phrase is some number of words (typically 12 or 24) that can be used to
regenerate a keypair on demand.

### Paper Wallet Security

In terms of convenience versus security, a paper wallet sits at the opposite
side of the spectrum from an FS wallet. It is terribly inconvenient to use, but
offers excellent security. That high security is further amplified when paper
wallets are used in conjunction with
[offline signing](../offline-signing/README.md). Custody services such as
[Coinbase Custody](https://custody.coinbase.com/) use this combination.
Paper wallets and custody services are an excellent way to secure a large number
of tokens for a long period of time.

{% page-ref page="../paper-wallet/README.md" %}

## Hardware Wallet

A hardware wallet is a small handheld device that stores keypairs and provides
some interface for signing transactions.

### Hardware Wallet Security

A hardware wallet, such as the
[Ledger hardware wallet](https://www.ledger.com/), offers a great blend of
security and convenience for cryptocurrencies. It effectively automates the
process of offline signing while retaining nearly all the convenience of an FS
wallet.

{% page-ref page="../remote-wallet/README.md" %}

Commit message:

Clean up paper/file system wallet docs (#9340)
* Add filesystem wallet page

* Move validator paper wallet instructions to validator page

* Remove paper wallet staking section

* Add steps for multiple fs and paper wallets

* Add keypair convention page and better multi-wallet example

docs/src/wallet/cli-wallets.md, after:

# Command Line Wallets

Solana supports several different types of wallets that can be used to interface
directly with the Solana command-line tools.

**If you are unfamiliar with using command line programs and just want to be able
to send and receive SOL tokens, we recommend setting up a third-party
[App Wallet](app-wallets.md)**.

To use a Command Line Wallet, you must first [install the Solana CLI tools](../cli/install-solana-cli-tools.md)

## File System Wallet

A *file system wallet*, aka an FS wallet, is a directory in your computer's
file system. Each file in the directory holds a keypair.

### File System Wallet Security

A file system wallet is the most convenient and least secure form of wallet. It
is convenient because the keypair is stored in a simple file. You can generate as
many keys as you would like and trivially back them up by copying the files. It
is insecure because the keypair files are **unencrypted**. If you are the only
user of your computer and you are confident it is free of malware, an FS wallet
is a fine solution for small amounts of cryptocurrency. If, however, your
computer contains malware and is connected to the Internet, that malware may
upload your keys and use them to take your tokens. Likewise, because the
keypairs are stored on your computer as files, a skilled hacker with physical
access to your computer may be able to access it. Using an encrypted hard
drive, such as FileVault on MacOS, minimizes that risk.

{% page-ref page="../file-system-wallet/README.md" %}

## Paper Wallet

A *paper wallet* is a collection of *seed phrases* written on paper. A seed
phrase is some number of words (typically 12 or 24) that can be used to
regenerate a keypair on demand.

### Paper Wallet Security

In terms of convenience versus security, a paper wallet sits at the opposite
side of the spectrum from an FS wallet. It is terribly inconvenient to use, but
offers excellent security. That high security is further amplified when paper
wallets are used in conjunction with
[offline signing](../offline-signing/README.md). Custody services such as
[Coinbase Custody](https://custody.coinbase.com/) use this combination.
Paper wallets and custody services are an excellent way to secure a large number
of tokens for a long period of time.

{% page-ref page="../paper-wallet/README.md" %}

## Hardware Wallet

A hardware wallet is a small handheld device that stores keypairs and provides
some interface for signing transactions.

### Hardware Wallet Security

A hardware wallet, such as the
[Ledger hardware wallet](https://www.ledger.com/), offers a great blend of
security and convenience for cryptocurrencies. It effectively automates the
process of offline signing while retaining nearly all the convenience of an FS
wallet.

{% page-ref page="../remote-wallet/README.md" %}
